# Stock Analysis Project 
### A project analyzing stock data using VBA in Excel
The purpose of this analysis was to help Steve, a recent finance graduate, analyze stocks using VBA in Excel. Visually seeing the trends of different stocks can help Steve better serve his clients and himself. 
## Results 
Looking at the results from the stock data from the year 2017 and year 2018, there are some noticable differences. It is visually displayed using green and red fill colors. The cells filled with green indicate the stock had growth within that year compared to the previous, whereas the cells filled with red indicate the opposite, that the stock value decreased compared the previous year. Based on the chosen stocks, this group of stocks overall did much better in 2017 compared to 2018. With 11 stocks gaining in 2017, to only 2 gaining in 2018. Looking at the [2017 execution time](/VBA_Challenge_2017.png) and the [2018 execution time](/VBA_Challenge_2018.png) recorded, it is safe to say that the refactored script was faster than the original script. 
## Summary
Overall, the advantages to refactoring code include typically there being less bugs in the program if it was properly looked through, which can make it easier to use the code. Another advantage could be that the code is usually viewed by others, so if there are any mistakes than they have less of a chance of being in a refactored code. Refactored code also is good for making the code easier to understand, with less unnecessary code within it. Some disadvantages to using refactored code is that it could take longer than making an original code if you do not understand what its purpose fully, usually the cost of a refactored code is higher than if you made an original, and is should not be refactored if it is a stable code because it would not be beneficial in the future. These pros and cons apply to refactoring the orignial VBA script because, by using it, it took less time to run the stock analysis but it also was not as easily understood as it would have been if it was written orignially. 
